

Friends and Rivals v0.7

TES III: Morrowind v1.2.0722 w/Tribunal v1.6.1820 and Bloodmoon v1.6.1820 - required

  i. Introduction
 ii. Forward and Disclaimers
  1. Installation
  2. Playing the plugin
  3. FnR features and hints
  4. Known Issues
  5. Future features
  6. Credits and Contact




  i.	 - Introduction - 

You're not the only adventurer in Tamriel. There's many with the sword and the desire, the wit and the will, who just happen to lack your destiny and your immortal ability to reload a save game. Some will embrace your cause and others can be won over to it. Some will follow you for love and some will follow you for money. With them you can assemble a tactical squad of hand-picked operatives, complementing their strengths and weaknesses, or throw together a rag-tag group of rugged individualists. You can lead a team of holy warriors, bloodthirsty marauders, one-eyed rogues or half-dressed assassins. You can gather them into your cherished Inner Circle or walk across their broken backs on the way to achieving your objectives.

Tamriel is filled with potential friends and rivals.


 ii. 	- Forward and Disclaimer -

This is an early beta of Friends and Rivals (henceforth referred to as 'FnR' or 'fnr',) and a request for playtesters. I've played through with various character types and team configurations, but I'm probably not going to find all possible bugs or get insights into everyone's playing styles and what those styles demand from companions and enemies. I also haven't playtested with characters of lvls higher than 30, so I don't know if there's a level they eventually become stale or obsolete in gameplay. I'm welcoming feedback in the form of balanced suggestions, bug reports, coding tips and even the strangest things you've heard or said after sex.

I'm henceforth from this statement indemnified for any and all damages to yourself, your computer, your Morrowind installation, your emotional hygiene and your lifestyle that may be incurred by installing and/or running this plugin. It's beyond me how this could damage you permanently, but if you find a way, please contact me by email so I can point at you and laugh.

So far FnR is just friends; from acquaintances to hirelings to battle buddies to love interests, adapted from Cuthroat Mods' fun and playable Partners. All of their original NPC's are here, including their journals, and you may recognize some of their sounds, dialog and features, including the ever popular 'love mode' (it's not just for wenches anymore!)

  USAGE: Though all FnR scripting is original and independently developed, CM Partners is what I've taken from the modding community, and FnR up to version 0.9 is what I'm returning to it. Therefore all code here is for anyone to copy or adapt, use and revise, with due credit to myself (Dok Enkephalin) and the Cutthroat Mods team.

  ALSO: Although it is possible for characters to have homosexual relations with other characters, I'm not here to advocate or bash homosexuality any more than I'm here to make statements about bestial relations with anthropomorphic reptiles and felines. This is just a game, folks (though if you know any hot orcish babes irl, please email me their phone number; I can't resist them tusky muscle-bitches.) The odds are 25% they'll bend your way, 10% they'll be exclusive to their own gender. It may help you to know that if you want to crank up your TESCS to figure out how to cheat the odds. And that's as much help as I'm giving anyone;)


  1. 	- Installation -

Tribunal and Bloodmoon are required for this plugin. Installation is as Easy as unzipping to your Morrowind/Data Files folder, cranking up the game executable, finding 'Friends and Rivals' in the list of Data Files and checking the box beside it. 

This plugin produces no known savegame issues with any other plugin, including any version of the original Cutthroat Mod's Partners. It won't double the NPCs, it'll just add the FnR versions alongside them. FnR NPC's will co-exist nicely with their original counterparts, though the originals will not be able to take advantage of mass transit.

I've tested this extensively with Super Adventurers 3, Giants, Giants Dragons and Giants Ultimate, The Wilderness Mod, Morrowind Enhanced w/Combat and Blocking Enhanced, all of LDone's Stealth and Armor Enhancements, the Bank and Armorer mods, Seyda Neen Docks and Haldenshore, Havish, Children of the Night 1 and 2, and Better Heads and Bodies (which I highly recommend -- go find it, it WANTS to be found!) The ony issue I've come across is with Morrowind Enhanced difficulty sliders, which will boost your NPC's stats along with your enemies. If you find it spoils your game, then avoid using those, otherwise you can exploit them to your heart's content for now. Also, NPC followers will sometimes finish your combos for you if you miss, which works out nicely since they don't as of yet have the ability to combo for themselves.

If I'm wrong about the above, correct me. That's why I've released this beta. Thank you in advance.


  2. 	- Playing the plugin -

Go find yourself a partner. All the companions inherited from Cutthroat Mods are in the same starting locations except for Jariel and Shank. Jariel has a more individualized backstory and interactivity to explain his presence in Curio Manor, and you might join Shank on the Bitter Coast. If you're familiar with CM Partners NPC's already, you'll find these interact differently. The same topics are there, but only the ones dealing with party command and coordination are pushed to the top.

Ahnassi is now a potential partner, yours completely if you finish her quests. But her orientation is subject to a roll of the dice now, so she may not be _your_ potential partner. If you've already started her quests, this plugin will replace her without losing anything or disrupting the flow of the quest, and whether you have a mod loaded that will allow her same sex romance or not, her sexuality will be adjusted to the appropriate orientation for romance with the Player. If you're running a plugin that changes her ID, of course that'll be left untouched. Her mysticism is also adjusted in accordance with Bethesda's text: 'Ahnassi is a student of the hidden mysteries, of the unseen world' and she 'finds secrets.'

Emusette Bracques or Barnand Erelie are potential partners also, if you've brought Maurrie and Nelos together in Pelagiad. Those of you who were disappointed by traveling to a far shore to meet a mysterious potential romance only to be rewarded with a handful of potions can now get a powerful spellcasting ally. If you're lucky or good, they'll respond to a little flattery.

  3.	- FnR Features and hints -

	If you play this over an existing game, you'll pick up companions easily; keeping them alive will be your greater challenge. If you start a new game, your chances of picking up some assistance will depend on your initial attributes: If you have more socially oriented skills you can easily charm some buff bodyguards into doing your dirty work. If you're better suited to other practical skills and combat, you could still hire on an extra hand, or find someone strong and slow-witted to take a blow for you. You could win people over with money, but then they expect more money out of their relationship with you -- raising their disposition with bribery makes them more likely to offer you services for money rather than warm comraderie. Fortunately, they'll consider your bribes as advance payment when they do finally make you an offer. You can even hire on some high-level help this way, if you can throw enough money at them and still afford their rates.

	Keep in mind that mercenaries won't become companions as easily as if you'd never hired them, and the strong but slow won't keep up with you as quickly when you do advance in level. It might be better to wait a level or two and get a more lasting sidekick. Or you could just use them, throw them away, and leave them to their bitterness and vindictive wrath. The world is your plaything -- what could go wrong?

	Well, lasting grudges can lead to ugly results. That wanna-be-Queen-Rogue dreamer may forgive you for felching her silver and welcome you back, but if you seduce Raathgar and make off with his shiny adamatium armor, you'd better have Thieves' Guild connections (of course, if you're smart you'll also disarm him when you undress him.) And having a reputation for cheating mercenaries will make it difficult to negotiate future contracts. If you get inside someone's personal defenses, there won't always be instant repercussions for relieving them of some of their goods, but a player with a thief's common sense will know when they've gone too far (and what to do about those repercussions.) FnR NPC's will remember abuse however, and it's possible to abuse them beyond your ability to get their forgiveness.

	FnR NPC's level up naturally as you advance; there's no need for explicit permission to train. Just assume they improve skills with use as you do, and that they take advantage of the training time you spend to hone their own abilities. More motivated NPC's will level up closer to your level, and smarter NPC's will pick up the tricks in fewer days. Like the player, they need a bit of rest in order to wake up with groundbreaking epiphanies, and they'll notify you when they're ready to rest and re-collect their experiences. 

	NPC specialization type will determine which skills advance faster, but skill assets are skill-based, not type-based. So you could have an agent who can heal your whole party, or you could have a healer who can help you with lockpicking. You can have non-combatant commoners and savants who can help you drive a better bargain or identify and mix herbs, or you can find a hardy barbarian who can provide the same skills. When a companion levels up, be sure to ask them about 'Special abilities' under the '-abilities' topic to see what they can do for you.

	You'll find skill assets for any skill, but they're not designed to give the player a boost so much as complement their weaknesses; the NPC with at least 15 points more than you in a non-combat, non-magic skill will help you with that skill when you ask them. The greater the difference in skills, the more help they can give you; if you recruit an expert in a skill you haven't developed, you'll get the benefits of their working knowledge, but you'll be able to use it more effectively if you have a layman's grasp yourself.

	Also for the sake of balance, most skill assets will not become available until the NPC has leveled up with you at least once. This is mostly because the player who can recruit much higher level bodyguards has enough of a edge. Traveling companions who've gone through enough with you to improve as individuals are more willing to open up and share their talents with you. However, some of those skills have personal perks that the NPC's can take advantage of (egs, NPC's with high alchemy can bandage themselves in combat, NPC's with high alteration levitate and waterwalk when needed.) These are available to the NPC whether they level with you or not.

	All NPC's improve in the armor worn on their chests and head, so you can develop them into mixed armor types or concentrate them on what they do best. All will improve with the weapon they have wielded, combat types will also improve in your weapon and armor if you have a higher skill than them. Stealth types will likewise improve marginally more per level in the stealth abilities that you have a better mastery of, and magic types will improve marginally in those schools of magic you're more advanced in. If you don't have skills they can learn from, they will learn marginally better in those skills they specialize in. So it's up to you whether you develop a more rounded skill repertoire to also expand their abilities, or more specialized character so they'll focus their preferred skills more quickly; the NPCs' growth will mirror yours. 

	Mark and recall are abilities for those moderately skilled in mysticism. So you can either pick only party members with some mystic potential, or recruit a member who's mastered the school enough to transport you and your entire party to one mark location. Members of the temple can give you fast travel to any beacon of Almsivi, while a worshipper of the Nine Divines can bring you quickly to the door of any Imperial Shrine. Non-clergy mystics can perform Divine and Almsivi Interventions at higher levels of mysticism than cult members can.

	Imperial and Almsivi shrines now spread their healing powers over an area, so your whole party will get the benefits of cure and restoration. Not bad for a handful of coins. Propylon indexes will also transport your party with you between strongholds and to and from Folms Mirel if you have the master index quest installed and complete. And when you get transport between Mournhold and Vvardenfell, so will your team.

	Warp mode is retained and improved in this release, but NPC's won't have imbalancing speed increases when they join you. When they level up with you, their movement skills and attributes will improve to match yours, thanks to the work-out they get from following you around. You can either pick teammates who are able to run with you or be patient with the slowpokes until they get in shape. If you've adapted to the Boots of Blinding Speed you'll have to be patient even longer; it'll still take time before they can achieve ludicrous speed. Mostly warp is kept as an AI workaround; sometimes followers get hung up on the terrain, and no matter how brilliant they are at acrobatics they won't go roofhopping with you.

	Bandaging now relies on the combined alchemy skill of you and the party member. You can only apply so much first aid, and it does have its drawbacks. A party member held together with bandages will be more vulnerable to attacks until they can knit themselves together with real healing in the form of rest or restoration magic.

  4.	- Known Issues -

 - FnR NPC's can be equipped with enchantments, but these will only be active during combat or when first equipped with them. The first time they change cells or end combat, those enchants will become unequipped. So if you want them to have non-combat benefits from enchantments, you simply go into Companion Share and pick up and drop any equipable item, every time they go into a new cell. They will only equip and get the effects from one ring, however.

I don't know of any way around this problem.

 - Sometimes one or more NPC's will need attention after a fight. You'll continue to hear in-combat music as they stand there, catatonic with shell-shock. Simply talking to them will calm them down, and if their weapon is still out, removing it and giving it back to them will also help enable their warping again so they can keep up with you. If one is stuck in spell-casting mode, they can be fixed by asking them to cast any other spell. Sometimes nothing works except another fight, and then they're back to their old selves.

I don't know any other way around these problems, either.

 - Traveling is partly broken; if you manage to leave a party member behind, their local script goes inactive, so if you can't backtrack to find them it'll create a few problems. The party count global won't be updated, which will influence how many new companions you can pick up. Also the transport script won't complete without their input, so the party members you have with you will be sent to the new location while you're left waiting for a ride.  If you go back and find your missing companion, transport will finish and you'll suddenly appear at the target site with your reunited party.

I know a workaround, but it's just so ugly. I'll probably go with it anyway, if no one else has a better suggestion.

 - Total magicka sometimes drops to 0 and stays there until you've left the NPC in a separate cell for a time, which will set back the NPC's leveling time. This is a problem for magic specialists, who will try to kamizakee with their relatively feeble melee skills. They can still use their scripted magic -- it just makes them more vulnerable and less effective combat support.

There's some workarounds in place; resting even an hour will restore your party's magicka. If anyone knows the cause of this, please share. 


  5.	- Future features -

   To be done in v0.8:

- Complete skill benefits - Added personal perks for NPC's with high skill levels.

 - Advanced skills benefits - As of now skill benefits become obsolete as the player develops; I'm looking for balanced ways to make NPC skills useful to upper level players who've developed enough of each skill. One possible idea: 

 - Compound skills - NPC's will provide new perks with the combination of two skills at high enough levels. Some examples: 

enchant + armorer = craft lighter weight, higher enchant armor from scavenged leathers and minerals; 
stealth + speechcraft = give a brief assist to your stealth by engaging non-combatants in diversive conversation;
illusion + alchemy = throw down blinding and confusing smokescreens over an area.

- Emotional AI and longer term memory - better grudge-and-gratitude handling; also important for v1.0+

- Tweaks, rebalancing, fixes for reported bugs, more examples of individualized FnR NPC's, perhaps slave level followers and/or beasts if there's demand. I don't have any plans, and I expect someone else could adapt FnR for those.

   To be done in v0.9:

 - Leveled lists - random companions complete the population of taverns, cornerclubs, barracks, guildhalls, city streets and even daedric ruins, in levels proportionate to players and in such a variety as to make each party you can assemble distinctive and each game unique. These NPC's can all be potential rivals and enemies in v1.0+, so for now you'd better either kiss their asses or do them before they do you. 

 - Complete faction reactions and benefits - It's good to have friends in the many courts, clubs and secret societies you'll never be part of. Unless it's an organization everyone loves to hate; also important for v1.0+

- Follow idles - making friends more alive with interjected commentary and reactions to their environment.

- Fixes for bugs that will no doubt be reported for v0.8

   To be done in v1.0+:  The inverse of Friends, Companions and Partners; Rivals, Enemies and Adversaries. All very good reasons to surround yourself with allies.



  6.	- Credits and Contact -

Much thanks to GhanBuriGhan and everyone who contributed to his MSfD8. My own experiences on the forums have made me wonder just where in hell all the script savvy and good advice really comes from. Maybe I'm visiting the wrong forums. Oh well, thanks for compiling this, it's been a valuable reference.

The greatest credit goes to Cutthroat Mods for their work in producing Partners; this mod was originally just a couple personal tweaks to their 2.5 release that turned into a complete overhaul. See above Forward and Disclaimer for usage, especially those parts prefaced with CAPTIAL LETTERS. Nothing else was taken from any other sources.

I can be contacted by email @:  enkephalin@yahoo.com 

If you see my name on any forum, for now I'd prefer not to make FnR a topic there. If there are enough beta testers for this I may open a new forum for everyone to communicate with me and each other, but until then save discussion for email with me. 

I've laid this foundation solo but as stated above, I would welcome contributions in the form of suggestions, bug reports, fixes, coding ideas, and will gratefully list you in the credits of later releases. And if you want to submit NPC's with backstories I'd be happy to add those in and credit you.

I also accept beer donations, and if anyone wants to submit sound clips for gay and lesbian loveMode, I welcome those also.
Just don't fake it; that's so...dirty.

Friends and Rivals v0.7 8/30/04

